---
draft: true
title: "Ideas"
date: 2018-10-26T12:00:00+00:00
---

I want to explore the concept of (protecting) ideas from a legal and spiritual
perspective. More specifically, the **idea** of **identity**.

I'll start by explaining how I feel about one idea specifically, the
transgender community, and use it as an example of protecting ideas using
legislative processes as well as how I feel about the movement on a spiritual
level.

Because it can be easy to misunderstand or misinterpret another's perspective,
please allow me to first address my feelings about transgender individuals, 
the community and their ideas.

I respect the **idea** (and its outcome) that someone knows they're not living
their true **identity**. I understand this can manifest its self in the form of
undergoing a transformation (and sometimes it doesn't.) I support and respect
anyone going through this personal journey and I will respect the outcome for
that individual.

I'm also completely for the idea that people undergoing such a transformation
should be protected from attack and or oppression. The ramifications of
allowing such negative actions against the transgender community aren't going
to be positive. We've certainly got some recent history we can draw on as an
example of this.

But I've been wondering: should we attempt to force specific types of speech to
protect a community or minority, such as the transgender community, or should
we be making sure existing equality laws include such communities and are
enforced?

Is it not enough to simply say everyone is equal regardless of their race,
creed, sex, gender, age, religion, political identity and whatever else can be
included in this list? Do we really need to protect specific genders or age
groups?

More specifically, and inline with recent hot topics, should we be introducing
laws that force specific use of language around pronouns?

I also want to ask: why are we even still using pronouns at all? Would we not
be better off without them? Are names not enough?

## An Idea is Born

Wikipedia introduces us to the concept of an
[idea](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idea) like this:

"In philosophy, ideas are usually taken as mental representational images of
some object. Ideas can also be abstract concepts that do not present as mental
images. Many philosophers have considered ideas to be a fundamental ontological
category of being. The capacity to create and understand the meaning of ideas
is considered to be an essential and defining feature of human beings. In a
popular sense, an idea arises in a reflexive, spontaneous manner, even without
thinking or serious reflection, for example, when we talk about the idea of a
person or a place. A new or original idea can often lead to innovation."



## What is Identity?

...

## Freedom of Speech

- More than an idea
- It's a mechanism
- Where do we draw the line?

## The Shield of Law

- (See if Jodi can and will comment)

## Pronouns

- (Their first use)
- (Their purpose)
- (Continued use)

---

Professor Jordan Peterson has made a name for him self with his views on the
use of pronouns within the transgender community. I want to address analysis
and various remarks and backlash of the following facts regarding Peterson's
views:

"... he stated he would not use the preferred gender pronouns of students and
faculty, saying it fell under compelled speech, and announced his objection to
the Canadian government's Bill C-16, which proposed to add "gender identity or
expression" as a prohibited ground of discrimination under the Canadian Human
Rights Act, and to similarly expand the definitions of promoting genocide and
publicly inciting hatred in the Criminal Code." -
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jordan_Peterson#Gender_relations_and_masculinity)

In this post I make clear my views on the transgender community and use of the
pronouns, as well how I feel about Peterson being labelled "transphobic" for
his views.

My view regarding anyone who is transgender is they're simply equal in all
regards.

I believe the transgender community is a brave and deeply important new way
forward for all of us.  It's a community that's employing its incredibly rare
gift of life to protest the concepts surrounding social normality, specifically
around the constructs of binary identity. The transgender community is showing
us that society is ever changing and fluid by nature. We should not fear this
change but instead embrace it, for I believe it's a critical part of our
future.

We should all understand that respecting their position helps us all grow as a
society and as such we should hold the transgender community in high regard and
with the upmost of respect.

But a community cannot and will not achieve equal rights for all in isolation.
It's a societal effort, but also a two-way street.

The political left and right are opposing, but they need each other. You can't
have just one side otherwise you have a broken scale. You have chaos.

This is why I have an issue with the current pronoun situation: it's creating a
one-way street; a one-sided debate.

---

I do not disagree with someone's right to replace "Mr" with something else, be
it "other", "binary", or whatever they feel identifies them. I run into issues
when the opinions of some are supressed or rejected as transphobic because they
differ from the opinions of the trans community.

Clearly some sentiments are just hateful. There will always be those people who
hate what they don't understand or don't want to understand. They will reduce a
situation to hateful speech and violance. They're not welcome in any debate,
let alone this one.

But simply stating that one does not agree with the notion of fluid or
non-binary genders does not constitute hateful speech. It also doesn't afford
the offended the right to not be offended in the future.

You can absolutely reject the notion of non-binary pronouns **and** support a
transgender's right to be whatever or whomever they want to be. It's a
spectrum. It's not a multiple choice exam. It's life and it's complicated.

We should be striving for equality for all, not just those going through a
(very personal) transformation.

Having now considered this situation more, I simply ask: what use do pronouns
have in this current climate of ours? Perhaps the equality we seek around
identity can be found in abolishing pronouns entirely?

---

Challenging any and all ideas is what we need in society.

How are we to know if an idea or opinion is right or wrong if the only view is
from one side of the debate? We need both views. We have to debate this to
discover the truth and in the process of finding the truth some will get hurt
as their ideas are rejected.

Challenging (and rejecting) ideas is something we **have** to do in order
for society to develop intellectually and emotionally. During the discourse of
such political debates it must be remembered, at all times, that we're simply
trying to identify the truth.

That's all we're ever really looking for, the truth, and all opinions should be
welcomed, considered, and applied or rejected on the **individual level**. Once
this happens over enough time, you'll have your answer in the form of
individual votes and reformed laws.

We've seen that with time the laws change to favour the opinion of the masses.
It's been witnessed in the UK and Australia with gun laws. We've seen same sex
marriage become legalised. Now is the time for cannabis and other drug laws to
be reformed so that people with addictions can get the help they need instead
of being shunned by society.

For the trans community we need to support their ideas and (positive) actions,
allowing them to flourish. Given enough time I'm confident that society as a
whole will see just how beautiful a concept theirs is and with that, laws will
be reformed in protect the equality of all.

We just need to keep talking.

