---
draft: true
title: "Patience"
date: 2018-10-27T17:00:00+00:00
---

If there's one thing I've come to understand over the past year or two, having
focused more on my emotions and took lessons from Buddhism, is that being
patient helps save time, not waste or lose it.

I want to look at some of the ways I've been impatient by examining the
behaviour of others. I'll identify in others the types of behaviour I'm guilty
of in the hopes that we can slow down and be more patient.

Ultimately our impatience actually stems from a simple set of psychological 
concepts: demands and expectations.

We often demand a lot of ourselves. We demand that we perform well or attain
certain levels of achievement or perfection. We often put a lot of stress on
ourselves as we make demands of our performance and as such this is one way in
which we can become impatient with others.

The biggest factor for me personally has been expectations. This is where
Buddhism has helped me a lot. We often attempt to make reality match what's in
our heads. One of the better examples of this that's personally experienced is
wanting other people around me on the road to drive to my standard. I want them
to drive to a standard I figure is best. The problem being, of course, that
people can't read my mind and, more importantly: who do I think I am, exactly?

We'll explore these two concepts and try to find examples that illustrate them
nicely.

## On the road 

This is the most critical place I see people being the most impatient.

It's something we're all familiar with. It's something we've all had and
probably continue to have. And I've seen all kinds of manifestations of
impatience on the road and they're all dangerous (in many ways other than
physical safety.)

One of my personal favourites is when someone accelerates to close the gap
between them and the car in front so that you or another person cannot pull in,
as if some how another car getting between them and the car they're following
will result in critical loss of time. 

We've all noticed how people will dart in and out of lanes, doing everything
they can to get ahead of the traffic. After about 20-25 minutes of this on a
busy motorway/highway, you'll notice that you end up stuck behind that same
person further down the road at some congestion or a traffic light. At most
they will be 4-5 cars ahead of you yet they risked the safety of themselves and
everyone else around them, and risked copping a fine, for what amounted to
absolutely zero benefit or time saving.

And what about jumping the lights before they've switched to green. Don't get
me wrong I love to time the lights and get to know the cycle - it keeps me on
my toes and aware of when I need to release my handbrake - but some people will
jump a red light because they know it's going to change in 1.5 seconds, but
they're simply unwilling to wait an extra 1-2 seconds yet run the risk of a
fine or collision with soeone running the **other** light that just turned red.

We all need to slow down and calm down. We'll get to our destination all the
same. You wont be saving any time.

# Walking through a mall

# Communications

# Just life in general

